INTRO

Majestic rocky ridge lines angle into the brilliant blue sky, creating peaceful separation from the outside world.  Pressures, decisions, and deadlines are frozen behind, leaving time for quiet reflection.

As the river slips into churning rapids, a deafening roar builds intense excitement and apprehension.  In seconds, determination navigates crashing waves and your elation is as bright as the white water.  Relief at safe passage is only fleeting as the river slips around the next bend, drawing you on to the next adventure.

A Great Blue Heron stands elegantly still among the stones at the river's edge, keeping a watchful eye out for a fish dinner.  At the same time, he keeps a wary eye on rafts drifting by, hoping he is camouflaged from both parties.

The night sky is a sparkling black and white painting of the heavens that cannot be matched elsewhere.  The Milky Way, bright enough to walk by, is a reminder of nature's intricacy and great expanse.

A RIVER TRIP is unique to every individual.  This experience is one we at North Star River Expeditions want to share with you, your family, and your friends.  With 15 years combined experience in the industry and as professional guides,  we have spent the better part of our lives on rivers exploring the rugged back country of Idaho and Oregon.  This is our home and North Star River Expeditions is our live's pursuit.  Our objective is to provide you with a trip that will shape memories you will never forget.

Jacob & Tricia Warren, Owners
North Star River Expeditions, Inc.

Licensed and Bonded Outfitters & Guides

Members of:	Idaho Ourtfitters & Guides Association
America Outdoors

Permittees of:	Wallowa-Whitman National Forest
		Cottonwood Resource Area, BLM


 


SNAKE RIVER IN HELLS CANYON

The Snake River winds northward on the border of Idaho and Oregon within the walls of Hells Canyon.   Dramatically forged in the Wallowa-Whitman National Forest, Hells Canyon is the deepest gorge in North America.  >From He Devil, the tallest peak in Idaho's Seven Devils mountain range, eight thousand feet of rocky cliffs and grassy slopes cascade to the deep, green waters of the Snake.

The Snake River was named after Native Americans of the Shoshone tribe, who painted snake heads on sticks to intimidate other tribes and unwanted visitors.  The Snake country is still rich with remnants of their way of life.  Pictographs have been preserved naturally under numerous rock ledges, now puzzling symbols for your speculation.

Settlers moved into the canyon as early as 1890, looking for land of their own and space to build a life for their families.  They built homesteads, farmed high benches above the river, and ran sheep and cattle from the crest of the canyon to the river below.  Abandoned now, these homestead sites have been well preserved by the Forest Service since the 1976 signing of the Hells Canyon National Recreation Area Act by President Gerald Ford.  Even today, Hells Canyon is still as remote as it was 100 years ago.

The Snake features powerful, large-volume white water at its finest.  Class IV rapids like Wild Sheep and Granite will give you new respect for a river's ferocity.  Bernard, No Name, Waterspout, and Rush Creek have steep waves that will douse you and ensure a wonderful time.  To add to your enjoyment, we provide a variety of boats for you to try.  Hold on to an oar boat for a wild ride while the guide navigates the rapid, or climb into a raft with a guided team of paddlers for a more collaborative effort.  One and two person inflatable kayaks are available throughout the trip for you to try on certain sections of the river.

The canyon holds many species of big game, including mule deer, Rocky Mountain big horn sheep, mountain goat, and an occasional bear, elk, or cougar.  You may find a troop of mischievous otter, as well as waterfowl, heron, songbirds, and chukar.  A number of bald and golden eagles soar from cliff to cliff and hunt fish out of the river.

Many professional bass fishermen have been impressed by the large quantity of aggressive small mouth bass hiding in the shadowy, still waters of the Snake.  Cast a line out into the fast, swirling current and you will be surprised by a hard fighting rainbow trout or steelhead.  Even more impressive and exciting are the fresh water white sturgeon residing in deep pools of the river, many of which are over 10 feet in length and as much as 100 years old.



RIVER OF NO RETURN - THE LOWER MAIN SALMON

The Salmon River in Idaho is the longest free flowing river in the lower 48 states.  Known originally for it impressive salmon runs, it winds through the heart of Idaho's backcountry for approximately 900 miles, dropping 7,000 feet in elevation.  The Salmon River completes its journey through Idaho's wilderness lands at a confluence with the Snake River in Hells Canyon.  This final 54 mile stretch is called the Lower Main Salmon.

The Lower Salmon treats its visitors to varying terrain as it twists through narrow rock canyons, then drifts into wide angle views of massive grassy mountainsides, accented with stair step columnar basalt formations.  Lined with white sandy beaches, the river brings a relaxing, luxurious feel to camping at river's edge.  A warm summer day will prompt you to dive right from your camp chair into the green waters for a cooling swim.

Amazingly, this solitary and picturesque setting was actually the site of historic struggles.
In 1877, at the threat of either death or reservation life, Chief Joseph's band of Nez Perce strategically avoided U.S. soldiers by crossing the dangerous waters of the Salmon numerous times.  Many significant battles took place in the Salmon river country between the Nez Perce and the calvary commanded by General Oliver Otis Howard.  Also, from the late 1800's through the early 1900's homesteaders tested themselves to a rough way of life.  Building homes along the banks of the Lower Salmon, they attempted to live off its wild resources.  Miners prospected for gold and other valuable metals, while sheep and cattle ranchers vied for rangeland.

The Salmon River's pool and drop style of white water sports dozens of class II and III rapids which make kayaking and paddle rafting an exhilarating experience.  There are many waves and holes for the experienced kayaker to surf, as well as routes through rapids for beginning kayakers of all ages.

If you enjoy looking for wild life, you will be excited to spot a mule deer followed by a small fawn, Mallards with their ducklings, or frolicking river otter families. These are common among the many species of birds, big game, and other wild life along the Salmon's banks.  The diverse fishery includes trout, steelhead, bass, catfish, and fresh water sturgeon.

BOATS

Our armada includes Hyside and Avon rafts ranging in size from 15 feet in length to 19 feet in length.  Please let us know what you are most interested in and we will do our best to provide an opportunity for you to try those boats.  Guests often rotate to the various different rafts throughout the trip.   Forest Service and BLM management plans, as well as safety policies of North Star River Expeditions regulate the number and/or type of boats we can bring on each particular trip.

Oar Rafts
These rafts are set up with an oar frame, where a licensed guide is in control of the raft while passengers hold on for a wild ride or sit and relax in the calmer sections of river, enjoying the passing scenery.  Each oar raft carries some personal duffel, as well as fresh drinking water and ice cold beverages for the passengers' enjoyment!  Oar rafts hold four to five people comfortably, plus the guide.

Paddle Rafts
Every passenger in this raft holds a paddle, as the team makes a collaborative effort under instruction of a licensed guide to navigate rapids or propel the boat in calm water.  Paddling is hard work, and therefore provides you with an exhilarating sense of accomplishment by the end of the day!  Paddle rafts need a minimum of six people and can hold up to eight paddlers, plus a guide.

Inflatable Kayaks
We also bring one and two-person inflatable kayaks along for use on selected portions of the trip.  These are relatively stable boats, easy for the beginner of all ages to learn to paddle.  We provide instruction on the trip.  Generally, two to three kayaks will be brought on each trip, and we will make every effort to offer each person in your group who may be interested a chance to paddle a kayak.

Supply Pontoons
These large rafts are custom designed to carry the majority of the trip's camp gear, duffel, food, extra ice and drinks.  This leaves the guest rafts less cluttered and more maneuverable.  Every morning the supply boatman will leave the rest of the group and float to the next camp.  When you arrive at camp at the end of the day, the kitchen gear and tents will be set, and your duffel unloaded.



FOOD AND OTHER AMENITIES

Between rapids there is time to hike, fish, swim, survey scenery or drink a cold beverage.  Expeditions from three to six days are unique because there is time during each day for a multitude of activities for everyone in your group to enjoy.  Those ambitious sorts who can't seem to sit still can hike to gorgeous view points in the canyon.  If you favor relaxation, you can sunbathe on the boat within reach of an icy drink, take a refreshing swim, or just retire to a comfortable chair in the shade with your favorite book.

You will be amazed as your guides evolve from master oarsmen to master chef, presenting you with an eight course meal prepared and cooked in the outdoors.  Start the evening with hors d' oeuvres and glass of wine.  Dinner is served around 7 or 8 o'clock p.m.  One evening's dinner will feature deliciously marinated beef steaks grilled to your taste, served with sautéed shrimp, savory Down River Spuds, green salad, and fresh baked bread.  Make sure to save room for homemade apple or sweet berry pie.   Our gourmet Dutch oven recipes will leave your mouth watering in anticipation of the next meal. 

Hot breakfast is served at about 8 a.m.  Coffee and other hot drinks will be available earlier in the morning, as well fruit, yogurt, and juice in order to spell you until breakfast is served.  At lunch time, we stop and prepare an impressive spread of food, including specialty salads and/or deli sandwiches.  Snacks are available throughout the day in case you can't quite make it to the next meal!

We provide a limited amount of juice, soda, beer, mixers, and dinner wine.  You are encouraged to bring additional beverages of your choice along on the trip.  We will ice them for you and make them available when you need them.  Please notify us of any dietary requirements, allergies, or medical conditions, we can do our best to make you comfortable on the trip.

EQUIPMENT

All rafting and camping equipment is provided, including:
Waterproof bags for personal duffel 
Freshly laundered sleeping bags
Inflatable sleeping pads
Tents
Ground tarps
Rain flies
Camera boxes
Coast Guard approved life jackets
First aid supplies
Safety gear for paddle teams and kayakers
Fishing gear

A hand wash system is available before all meals and in camp.  We carry out all human waste in tank toilets, which will also be available for use throughout the day.  See our detailed GEAR LIST recommending what clothing and personal items you should bring for the trip.




GUIDES
GEAR LIST
LOGISTICS
MAP
CALENDAR

BOOKING INFORMATION

North Star River Expeditions, Inc.
P.O. Box 6703
Boise, ID 83707
(208)  338-9518  Fax (208)363-0408
Toll Free 877-610-3200
Website: www.northstar-rafting.com
Email:  vacation@northstar-rafting.com

Year 2000 Schedule and Rates:

Snake River through Hells Canyon
3 Day Expedition - $775/person
4 Day Expedition - $1010/person
5 Day Expedition - $1220/person
6 Day Expedition - $1425/person

Launch Dates:
May 17		July 28	
May 25		Aug 5
June 2		Aug 13
June 10		Aug 21
June 18		Aug 29
June 26		Sept 6
July 4		Sept 14
July 12		Sept 22
July 20		Charter dates available on request.

Lower Main Salmon River
4 Day Expedition - $985/person
5 Day Expedition - $1205/person

Launch Dates:
July 8 
July 16
July 24
Aug 1
Aug 9
Aug 17
Aug 25
Sept 2
Sept 10
Sept 18
Charter dates available on request.

Prices include 3% Forest Service or Bureau of Land Management Use Fee
Prices do not include: Gratuities or 5% Idaho Sales Tax (Snake River/Hells Canyon trips are  subject to 5% Idaho Sales Tax on 1/2 of the trip price because only 1/2 of the trip is in Idaho.)
Dates and Prices Subject to Change Without Notice
10% Youth Discount
Group Discounts are available on most trips.
Please ask about Charter Trips


What's Included in the Trip
Round trip group transportation from McCall, Idaho, to either the Snake or Salmon River and back to McCall after the float portion of the trip is included in the trip price.  We provide all meals starting with lunch the first day and ending with lunch the final day of your trip.  We supply a limited amount of complimentary soda, juice, beer, mixers, and dinner wine, as well as plenty of ice and all eating utensils (cups, plates, silver, etc.). A hand wash system is available before all meals and in camp.  Plenty of fresh drinking water is available at all times.  All rafting and camping equipment is provided, including: waterproof bags for personal duffel, freshly laundered sleeping bags, inflatable sleeping pads, tents, ground tarps, rain flies, camera boxes, Coast Guard approved life jackets, first aid supplies, and safety gear for paddle teams and kayakers. Once you make reservations we will provide you with a detailed "Gear List" recommending what clothing and personal items you should bring for the trip.

Reservations, Deposits, Final Payments, & Cancellations

Reservations and Deposits
We are happy to tentatively hold your reservation for 7 days.  Reservations are confirmed only upon receipt of a deposit on a first come, first served basis.  We accept deposits by personal check, money order, or by phone using your VISA or MasterCard.  Deposits are non-refundable, unless we can replace your reservations.  Please see the "Cancellations" section below for additional details.

Final Payment
The balance is due 60 days prior to the launch date of your trip.  If final payment is not received when due, we reserve the right to regard the reservation canceled.  In this case, your final payment will not be refunded, unless we can replace your reservations.

Cancellations
Should you have to cancel your trip plans, deposits and final payments are non-refundable, unless we can replace your reservations.  Alternate guest are welcome.  If we replace your canceled space(s) with other guests, a $100 per invoice cancellation fee is charged.

Please understand that we cannot insure your investment in river trip reservations.   Once you reserve spots on a trip, we lose the right to sell your reserved space to other individuals or groups.  The number of trips we run as well as the spaces per trip are limited by river management plans, controlled by the U.S. Forest Service or State of Idaho Bureau of Land Management.  We regret that we cannot make exceptions for personal emergencies.  We strongly recommend the purchase of trip cancellation and interruption insurance if you are concerned about the above stated policies.

Assumption of Risk
You will be required to sign an "assumption of risk agreement" in order to join a river trip with North Star River Expeditions, Inc.  We will send you such a form after you make reservations, or at your request.

Trip Insurance
We will send you information on Trip Insurance when you make reservations, or on request.  Cancellation and interruption insurance can include full refund should you cancel due to health, medical, and other reasons.  If you cannot afford to forfeit your reservation dollars, you should purchase trip cancellation insurance.

USDA/FS Policy
The policy of the United States Department of Agriculture/Forest Service prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, age, religion, sex, or disability, familial status, or political affiliation.  Persons believing they have been discriminated against in any Forest Service related activity should write to:  Chief, Forest Service, USDA, P. O. Box 96090, Washington, D. C. 20090-6090. 

Water & Weather Conditions
Extremely unfavorable water and weather conditions, insufficient bookings, and other conditions and events can be cause for a trip cancellation.  North Star River Expeditions, Inc. will not be held responsible for any cancellation, or for expenses incurred (travel ,motel, etc.) as a result of such cancellation.  North Star River Expeditions, Inc. has the right to make reasonable schedule changes when necessary.  If we must cancel and cannot reschedule your trip on another river or on alternate dates, we will make a complete refund of all your moneys paid to North Star River Expeditions, Inc. for the trip.  Extreme water conditions may mean that paddle rafts, supply pontoons, and/or inflatable kayaks cannot be used.  North Star River Expeditions, Inc. has the right to make river craft changes when necessary for safety.  When such boat changes are necessary, we may not have time to inform you before your trip.

Liability
North Star River Expeditions, Inc. spares nothing to assure that all trips we operate are the safest and best outfitted expeditions available.  However, river running is not without some risk, and you as a potential river runner, must be willing to assume this risk.  North Star River Expeditions, Inc. assumes no responsibility whatsoever for your personal safety or for damage or loss of your equipment.  We strongly recommend the purchase of trip insurance.  You will be required to sign an "assumption of risk agreement" in order to join a river trip with North Star River Expeditions, Inc.

